# NOAA CEFI Portal

The NOAA Climate, Ecosystems, and Fisheries Initiative (CEFI) portal provides data access, visualization tools, and climate science tutorials to assist stakeholders and decision-makers in understanding climate-related information. It emphasizes the use of regional ocean models (regional MOM6) to support ecosystem and fisheries management decisions. The source code in this repository represents the developing and public version of the [portal](https://psl.noaa.gov/cefi_portal/), offering transparency into its progress. External contributions are encouraged, including technical development, feature suggestions, and bug reports. You can submit issues or open pull requests to contribute. Additionally, a [Google Form](https://forms.gle/w5y3Q6DAJaKWCbkU8) is available for those unfamiliar with the GitHub interface.

## 1 min CEFI
The goal of the Climate Ecosystem and Fisheries Initiative (CEFI) is to provide information about past and future conditions for US coastal regions 🌎🌊🐟. Models need to be at a sufficient resolution to represent general coastal processes (on the order of 8-10 km horizontal resolution, although the grid may be of finer scale in the near future). In addition to historical simulation, seasonal forecasts (out to 1 year), decadal forecasts (out to 10 years) and long term projections (out to year 2100) will be made for several regions in the near future, including: (i) the Northwest Atlantic (US east coast, Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean), (ii) the Northeast Pacific (from Baja California to the Chukchi Sea in the Arctic), (iii) the Arctic, (iv) Pacific Islands including Hawaii, and (v) the Great Lakes.